In practice, the Bag-of-words model is mainly used as a tool of feature generation. After transforming the text into a "bag of words", we can calculate various measures to characterize the text. The most common type of characteristics, or features calculated from the Bag-of-words model is term frequency, namely, the number of times a term appears in the text. For the example above, we can construct the following two lists to record the term frequencies of all the distinct words:
Each entry of the lists refers to count of the corresponding entry in the list (this is also the histogram representation). For example, in the first list (which represents document 1), the first two entries are "1,2". The first entry corresponds to the word "John" which is the first word in the list, and its value is "1" because "John" appears in the first document 1 time. Similarly, the second entry corresponds to the word "likes" which is the second word in the list, and its value is "2" because "likes" appears in the first document 2 times. This list (or vector) representation does not preserve the order of the words in the original sentences, which is just the main feature of the Bag-of-words model. This kind of representation has several successful applications, for example email filtering.
However, term frequencies are not necessarily the best representation for the text. Common words like "the", "a", "to" are almost always the terms with highest frequency in the text. Thus, having a high raw count does not necessarily mean that the corresponding word is more important. To address this problem, one of the most popular ways to "normalize" the term frequencies is to weight a term by the inverse of document frequency, or tf–idf. Additionally, for the specific purpose of classification, supervised alternatives have been developed that take into account the class label of a document.[5] Lastly, binary (presence/absence or 1/0) weighting is used in place of frequencies for some problems. (For instance, this option is implemented in the WEKA machine learning software system.)